README.md, before:

# CopyCode

[![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/reveal.js-copycode)](#) [![Downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dt/reveal.js-copycode)](https://github.com/Martinomagnifico/reveal.js-copycode/archive/refs/heads/master.zip)

A simple plugin for [Reveal.js](https://revealjs.com) that automatically shows a 'copy' button in code blocks.

[![Screenshot](https://martinomagnifico.github.io/reveal.js-copycode/screenshot.png)](https://martinomagnifico.github.io/reveal.js-copycode/demo.html)

In Reveal.js presentations we can show blocks of code. This plugin for Reveal.js adds a 'copy' button to each of those. 

[Demo](https://martinomagnifico.github.io/reveal.js-copycode/demo.html)

It's easy to set up. If your code blocks are set up like this:

```html
<pre>
  <code>
    Here is the code
  </code>
</pre>
```

then install the plugin and it will work automatically.


## Installation

The CopyCode plugin has been rewritten for Reveal.js version 4.

If you want to use CopyCode with an older version of Reveal, use the [1.0.0 version](https://github.com/Martinomagnifico/reveal.js-copycode/releases).

### Regular installation

Copy the copycode folder to the plugins folder of the reveal.js folder, like this: `plugin/copycode`.


### npm installation

This plugin is published to, and can be installed from, npm.

```console
npm install reveal.js-copycode
```
The CopyCode plugin folder can then be referenced from `node_modules/reveal.js-copycode/plugin/copycode`


## Setup

### JavaScript



CopyCode needs one other (great) script to be able to function: [Clipboard.js](https://clipboardjs.com/) by [Zeno Rocha](https://zenorocha.com). This uses modern techniques to copy text to clipboard.

```html
<script src="dist/reveal.js">
<script src="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/clipboard.js/2.0.6/clipboard.min.js">
<script src="plugin/copycode/copycode.js"></script>
<script>
	Reveal.initialize({
		// ...
		plugins: [ CopyCode ]
	});
</script>
```


### Styling

Now add a link in your HTML to the stylesheet. 

```html
<link rel="stylesheet" href="plugin/copycode/copycode.css">
```



## Configuration

There are a few options that you can change from the Reveal.js options. The values below are default and do not need to be set if they are not changed.

```javascript
Reveal.initialize({
	// ...
	copycode: {
		plaintextonly: true,
		copy: "Copy",
		copied: "Copied!",
		timeout: 1000,
		copybg: "orange",
		copiedbg: "green",
		copycolor: "black",
		copiedcolor: "white"
	},
	plugins: [ CopyCode ]
});
```

* **`plaintextonly`**: Set this to false to allow copying of rich text and styles.
* **`copy`**: The text for each copy button.
* **`copied`**: The text for each copy button when the copy action is successful.
* **`timeout`**: The time in milliseconds for the "Copied!"-state to revert back to "Copy".
* **`copybg`**: The background color.
* **`copiedbg`**: The background color in the Copied state.
* **`copycolor`**: The text color.
* **`copiedcolor`**: The text color in the Copied state.



## Customize it per element

Turn off the button per element: 

```html
<pre data-cc="false">
  <code>
    Here is the code	
  </code>
</pre>
```

Or customize the button texts per element:

```html
<pre data-cc-copy="Copy HTML" data-cc-copied="Yes!">
  <code>
    Here is the code	
  </code>
</pre>
```




## Manual styling

Just change the provided stylesheet and do not override it from the config.




## Like it?

If you like it, please star this repo.




## License
MIT licensed

Copyright (C) 2021 Martijn De Jongh (Martino)

Commit message:

v 1.0.4
- Added auto-loading of styles and script.
- Changed the plugin to use CSS variables.

README.md, after:

# CopyCode

[![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/reveal.js-copycode)](#) [![Downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dt/reveal.js-copycode)](https://github.com/Martinomagnifico/reveal.js-copycode/archive/refs/heads/master.zip)

A simple plugin for [Reveal.js](https://revealjs.com) that automatically shows a 'copy' button in code blocks.

[![Screenshot](https://martinomagnifico.github.io/reveal.js-copycode/screenshot.png)](https://martinomagnifico.github.io/reveal.js-copycode/demo.html)

In Reveal.js presentations we can show blocks of code. This plugin for Reveal.js adds a 'copy' button to each of those. 

[Demo](https://martinomagnifico.github.io/reveal.js-copycode/demo.html)

It's easy to set up. If your code blocks are set up like this:

```html
<pre>
  <code>
    Here is the code
  </code>
</pre>
```

then install the plugin and it will work automatically.


## Installation

### Regular installation

Copy the copycode folder to the plugins folder of the reveal.js folder, like this: `plugin/copycode`.


### npm installation

This plugin is published to, and can be installed from, npm.

```console
npm install reveal.js-copycode
```
The CopyCode plugin folder can then be referenced from `node_modules/reveal.js-copycode/plugin/copycode`


## Setup

### JavaScript

CopyCode automatically inserts one other (great) script to be able to function: [Clipboard.js](https://clipboardjs.com/) by [Zeno Rocha](https://zenorocha.com). This uses modern techniques to copy text to clipboard.

```html
<script src="dist/reveal.js">
<script src="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/clipboard.js/2.0.6/clipboard.min.js">
<script src="plugin/copycode/copycode.js"></script>
<script>
	Reveal.initialize({
		// ...
		plugins: [ CopyCode ]
	});
</script>
```


### Styling

Since version 1.0.4, the styling of CopyCode is automatically inserted from the included CSS styles, either loaded through NPM or from the plugin folder.

If you want to change the CopyCode style, you do a lot of that via the Reveal.js options. Or you can simply make your own style and use that stylesheet instead. Linking to your custom styles can be managed through the `csspath` option of CopyCode.


## Configuration

There are a few options that you can change from the Reveal.js options. The values below are default and do not need to be set if they are not changed.

```javascript
Reveal.initialize({
	// ...
	copycode: {
		plaintextonly: true,
		copy: "Copy",
		copied: "Copied!",
		timeout: 1000,
		copybg: "orange",
		copiedbg: "green",
		copycolor: "black",
		copiedcolor: "white",
		csspath: "",
		clipboardjspath: ""
	},
	plugins: [ CopyCode ]
});
```

* **`plaintextonly`**: Set this to false to allow copying of rich text and styles.
* **`copy`**: The text for each copy button.
* **`copied`**: The text for each copy button when the copy action is successful.
* **`timeout`**: The time in milliseconds for the "Copied!"-state to revert back to "Copy".
* **`copybg`**: The background color.
* **`copiedbg`**: The background color in the Copied state.
* **`copycolor`**: The text color.
* **`copiedcolor`**: The text color in the Copied state.
* **`csspath`**: CopyCode will automatically load the styling. If you want to customise the styling, you can link to your own CSS file here. 
* **`clipboardjspath`**: This is the path to ClipboardJS. When nothing is filled in here, it will automatically load from a CDN. 


## Customize it per element

Turn off the button per element: 

```html
<pre data-cc="false">
  <code>
    Here is the code	
  </code>
</pre>
```

Or customize the button texts per element:

```html
<pre data-cc-copy="Copy HTML" data-cc-copied="Yes!">
  <code>
    Here is the code	
  </code>
</pre>
```




## Manual styling

Just change the provided stylesheet and do not override it from the config.




## Like it?

If you like it, please star this repo.




## License
MIT licensed

Copyright (C) 2022 Martijn De Jongh (Martino)
